## Responsive Web Design

- Responsive web design is the practice of building a website suitable to work on every device and every screen size(Mobile or Desktop)
- Responsive design websites continually and fluidly change based on different factors, such as viewport width, while adaptive websites are built to a group of preset factors.
- Responsive web design is broken down into three main components, including flexible layouts, media queries, and flexible media.
- Flexible grids are built using relative length units, most commonly percentages or em units. Used to declare common grid property values such as width, margin, or padding.
- Media queries provide the ability to specify different styles for individual browser and device circumstances, the width of the viewport or device orientation for example.

## All About floats

- There are four valid values for the float property. Left and Right float elements those directions respectively. None (the default) ensures the element will not float and Inherit which will assume the float value from that elements parent element.
- Float’s sister property is clear. An element that has the clear property set on it will not move up adjacent to the float like the float desires, but will move itself down past the float.
- Clear has four valid values as well. Both is most commonly used, which clears floats coming from either direction.
- The Empty Div Method is, quite literally, an empty div. \<div style="clear: both;"></div>. Sometimes you’ll see a \<br> element or some other random element used, but div is the most common because it has no browser default styling, doesn’t have any special function, and is unlikely to be generically styled with CSS. The Overflow Method relies on setting the overflow CSS property on a parent element. If this property is set to auto or hidden on the parent element, the parent will expand to contain the floats, effectively clearing it for succeeding elements. CSS pseudo selector (:after) to clear floats.

- [Reading Notes Home](https://vektur.github.io/reading-notes/)
