# Flexbox and Templating

## Templating with Mustache

- JS templating is a fast and efficient technique to render client-side view templates with JS by using a JSON data source.
- Mustache is a logic-less template syntax. Its has multiple use cases(html, config files, source code...)
- Mustache is a specification for a templating language. In general, we would write templates according to the Mustache specification, and it can then be compiled by a templating engine to be rendered to create an output.

## Guide to Flexbox

- A more efficient way to lay out, align and distribute space among items in a container, even when their size is unknown and/or dynamic
- A flex container expands items to fill available free space or shrinks them to prevent overflow.
- **main axis** – The main axis of a flex container is the primary axis along which flex items are laid out. Beware, it is not necessarily horizontal; it depends on the flex-direction property.
- **main-start** | main-end – The flex items are placed within the container starting from main-start and going to main-end.
- **main size** – A flex item’s width or height, whichever is in the main dimension, is the item’s main size. The flex item’s main size property is either the ‘width’ or ‘height’ property, whichever is in the main dimension.
- **cross axis** – The axis perpendicular to the main axis is called the cross axis. Its direction depends on the main axis direction.
- **cross-start** | cross-end – Flex lines are filled with items and placed into the container starting on the cross-start side of the flex container and going toward the cross-end side.
- **cross size** – The width or height of a flex item, whichever is in the cross dimension, is the item’s cross size. The cross size property is whichever of ‘width’ or ‘height’ that is in the cross dimension.
- Flexbox is a single direction layout concept.

- [Reading Notes Home](https://vektur.github.io/reading-notes/)
