# EJS

- npm i --save **EJS**
- load in dependencies;
- set views directory
- require PATH: this joins 2 paths. Also a core module for node.
- EJS syntax: <%= foo %>
- for(var foo of bar) <= easy for loop??
- You can use JS syntax in EJS files
- Create the EJS Partials, Add the EJS Partials to Views: use the include syntax to add
- Use <%- include('RELATIVE/PATH/TO/FILE') %> to embed an EJS partial in another file.
- The hyphen <%- instead of just <% to tell EJS to render raw HTML.

## EJS options

- **cache:** ==>  Compiled functions are cached, requires filename
- **filename** ==>  Used by cache to key caches, and for includes
- **root** ==>  Set project root for includes with an absolute path (e.g, /file.ejs). Can be array to try to resolve include from multiple directories.
- **views** ==>  An array of paths to use when resolving includes with relative paths.
- **context** ==>  Function execution context
- **compileDebug** ==>  When false no debug instrumentation is compiled
- **client** ==>  Returns standalone compiled function
- **debug** ==>  Outputs generated function body
- **strict** ==>  When set to `true`, generated function is in strict mode
- _with Whether or not to use with() {} constructs. If false then the locals will be stored in the locals object. (Implies `--strict`)
- **localsName** ==>  Name to use for the object storing local variables when not using with Defaults to locals
rmWhitespace Remove all safe-to-remove whitespace, including leading and trailing whitespace. It also enables a safer version of -%> line slurping for all scriptlet tags (it does not strip new lines of tags in the middle of a line).
- **escape** ==>  The escaping function used with <%= construct. It is used in rendering and is .toString()ed in the generation of client functions. (By default escapes XML).
- **outputFunctionName** ==>  Set to a string (e.g., 'echo' or 'print') for a function to print output inside scriptlet tags.
- *async* ==>  When true, EJS will use an async function for rendering. (Depends on async/await support in the JS runtime.

## EJS Tags

- <% ==> 'Scriptlet' tag, for control-flow, no output
- <%_ ==>  ‘Whitespace Slurping’ Scriptlet tag, strips all whitespace before it
- <%= ==>  Outputs the value into the template (HTML escaped)
- <%- ==>  Outputs the unescaped value into the template
- <%# ==>  Comment tag, no execution, no output
- <%% ==>  Outputs a literal '<%'
- %> ==>  Plain ending tag
- -%> ==>  Trim-mode ('newline slurp') tag, trims following newline
- _%> ==>  ‘Whitespace Slurping’ ending tag, removes all whitespace after it

---

- [Reading Notes Home](https://vektur.github.io/reading-notes/)
